hey how's it going guys this is Dave - D
and this is a video on some six core
computers so a little while ago I
mentioned how I was interested in
upgrading my setup because my retina
15-inch MacBook Pro was getting a little
bit sluggish with video edits so
normally if you do like a 10 minute
video in 4k it takes about an hour to
render but as I learned more about color
correction and just do more animations
those renders were starting to hit two
hours and sometimes even longer so I
wanted something that was a little bit
faster
originally I was looking at some eight
core computers now they're very fast and
they're relatively inexpensive compared
to what eight core computers used to
cost you know three four years ago but
right now they are still a little bit
more expensive than I want to spend my
money on and I found that six core
computers are where it's kind of like
the best bang for your buck so here's a
video it's not really not so much of a
review as more of a you know showcase or
a comparison between how a Mac 6 core
setup runs and how a PC 6 course setup
runs so here's the video hope you enjoy
let's start off talking about case
design so the Mac Pro has always looked
super cool to me it's aluminum it's
incredibly small and even though this
thing's been out since the end of 2013
I'm always still impressed every time I
look at one of these things it really is
kind of crazy how small this thing is
compared to any kind of PC out there and
in the odd chance that you haven't seen
this before to remove the outer shell
there's like a little latch in the back
and you just lift it up now for the PC I
actually tried to build the entire
system into the smallest micro ATX case
I could find which is the Roswell legacy
v4 I had to use a micro ATX because
there are no mini ITX x99 boards but
even though I got everything to fit it
was so crammed that airflow is terrible
and my temperatures were just really bad
so I ran it like this for a couple days
but I took everything out and put it
into a different case just because it
was really impractical but in case you
were wondering you can fit a full-sized
graphics card into this case and what I
ended up using was the corsair Air 250
so this is a significantly larger case
it's still a micro ATX case but it's
more spacious and there's just a lot
more room for airflow and for cabling
and stuff it has a tinted window so you
can kind of see your components I'm not
big on windows for PC cases but it's
kind of fun
and this case can be put on any one of
its side so you can lay it down flat or
you can put it on its side you just
position it to whichever way you want
and in case you forgot how small that
MacPro is here it is again alright so
the internals the Mac Pro has a single
fan it's a big fan but because it's so
large it can spin really slowly and move
a decent amount of air this thing idles
are around 800 rpm and you can't hear it
but we'll get into sound stuff later
there's a good number of ports in the
back but most of them are Thunderbolt
and there's actually not that many
accessories that I personally use that
use Thunderbolts or a DisplayPort so I
feel like some of those are wasted
everything connects to the back I don't
really like there's no front-facing
ports so I'm just going to spin the Mac
Pro around while I talk about some specs
this thing has 32 gigs of RAM and has a
pair of ATI d500 so this is Apple's
mid-range video card for the Mac Pro
well the type of work I do for video
editing it doesn't really require a
super powerful graphics card so this is
a pretty good option in terms of price
point and this thing has an Intel Xeon 6
core that runs at 3.5 gigahertz per core
and depending on the number of cores
that are active it can turbo boost to
3.8 or even 4 gigahertz per core this
Mac Pro has been available since the
very end of 2013 or realistically early
2014 and the parts that are in this PC
became available in late summer of 2014
so there's better an 8 month difference
in terms of the age of the tech so
inside this thing we have an Intel 58 20
so this is their 6 core it runs up 3.6
gigahertz but have easily overclocked
this thing to 4.2 it's water-cooled with
a corsair h 100 i and i'm running this
with two fans on pull it's not going to
be the best in terms of cooling
performance but i really don't like a
noisy build and i just want to have as
few fans as possible
i have these fans running at around 1100
rpm so it's running 32 gigs of DDR 4 and
it's running an EVGA GTX 980 I had a
Titan X in here but in terms of
benchmarks they were almost identical
for the stuff I do and because I like
things that are blue I found some blue
cabling on eBay that looks very nice and
I just replaced most of the modular
cabling with this and all of this is
running on an EVGA micro X 99 I'm not
gonna do testing with games just because
you know the PC is just gonna destroy
the Mac but I didn't pick up these
systems for gaming they're basically
just for video editing ok so here's some
Geekbench scores
and some Cinebench scores
you
okay on to the testing that's more
relevant
to video editing so I use Premiere Pro a
lot of video editors use other programs
like Final Cut but I started learning
with Premiere and After Effects so I'm
probably just gonna stick with it so
here are some render times and just for
reference like mid 2014 15 inch MacBook
Pro the base model that rendered the 4k
ten minute video in 52 minutes now
here's the thing before it picked up the
Mac I was pretty sure that the PC would
just destroy the Mac just because of how
many YouTube videos there are about how
poorly a Mac Pro performs compared to an
equivalent PC and I didn't really find
that here granted this PC cost about
2500 and this is a refurb Mac Pro that
cost about 3,200 so there's a big
difference in price and because that Mac
Pro has tech that's from a previous
generation I'm actually surprised how
closely we're in terms of the benchmark
performance all right let's talk about
noise and heat when it's idle the Mac
Pro is essentially silent it's like 20
decibels is basically the sound of your
room and interestingly when you put it
under load it becomes slightly more
audible but it's still really really
quiet to the point where you have to put
your ear over the exhaust just to make
sure it's running the Mac gets to about
26 27 decibels when the computer is
running full tilt
that's crazy quiet it's such an
attractive point to this computer for
people that record audio in front of
their computers this thing's amazing and
the water-cooled PC I'm actually running
this on to fans as quietly as possible
and I'm getting 32 decibels it's
certainly not loud and it's manageable
and this entire video has been recorded
with both computers running in the
background idling and when you start
doing some renders the fans kick in and
I'll just let you listen to it
yeah that's really loud now keep in mind
the fans only come on once in a while
even when it's rendering but that's
almost 50 decibels now if I'm not
mistaken for every 10 decibels you go up
it's a perceived doubling involving so
49 or 50 decibels is a lot louder than
so this massive difference in fan noise
probably comes with a big difference in
the thermal output so let's take a look
at that with the Fleur one thermal
camera
all right so on the left is the Mac Pro
and on the right is the PC and these are
the two computers at idle and the
temperatures you see on screen are the
CPU core temperatures so that Mac Pro
runs really cool when it's idling and
the PC is actually significantly warmer
and if you'll remember a little bit
louder at idle
and in this video this is when the two
computers are under load so all six
cores are being used the video card is
being used pretty heavily and the fans
are going full blast the Hat Mac Pro
looks like a radioactive bomb it's
really hot but it's also very quiet and
the PC is super loud but it's quite a
bit cooler than the map
keep in mind that it is a Xeon processor
which is a workstation grade processor
and those things are built to take a lot
more heat and have a longer lifespan so
for the Mac Pro to run at 85 degrees
it's alright but from what I've read
it's not advisable to run the PC at
really high temp for extended periods of
time
all right so you might be wondering
which computer I ended up going with and
you know what you probably don't care
but I'm gonna tell you anyways I went
with the PC I grew up on PCs and for the
past little while I'd say seven or eight
years I've been using Apple computers
almost exclusively for work and for home
and to the point where I feel like I've
becoming a bit of an Apple fanboy
inadvertently and my friends hurt me for
it so I feel like this is a great time
to get back into the windows groove kind
of rheic spear Ian sit and with Windows
10 just around the corner I think this
is a great time to give it a shot
that's the end of the video I hope you
guys liked it and more importantly I
hope some of you guys learned a thing or
two from it and maybe even inspired or
kind of directed your own purchasing
decisions for video editing rigs of your
own but if you have any questions or
comments just type them below and as
always I'll do my best to answer them
and yeah you guys liked it give me some
thumbs and if you loved it
give me some subs it's been nice I'll
see you guys next time